---
layout: post
title:      "How to approach classes and instances."
date:       2019-06-19 02:16:22 +0000
permalink:  how_to_approach_classes_and_instances
---


A class is a mold, and a instance is an item made from that mold.  That's just an analogy. But in reality classes are containers that hold instances, they can hold other classes, they can hold methods, and by holding these items they can also hold information.  So a class is an abtraction of whatever concept or mold you want to imagine in your head.  For example, when we say "let's go to the beach!", we don't say let's go to the area where there's water, umbrellas, sand, or starfish.  We abstract all of these concepts in a word called "the beach."  So that's one part of object oriented programming or classes, which is abstraction.  So how do we make instances from beaches? Remember the beach is a mold, and in terms of how vast a beach can be, we can say that the biggest beach we have is the one with the biggest ocean and biggest continent. So that's our mold, but we can have an instance of a beach that lays on a lake, or on lagune, or on a river.  So requirements for being an instance of a beach are the ones we mentioned above: sand, umbrellas, water and maybe starfish.  But remember, one abstracts the class beach by having all that information, and we can conclude that our town beach near our town river is an instance of a beach.  Or if I go to Chicago to the great lakes, the beach there is an instance of this abstraction called beach.  Furtheremore, an instance is subset of a class as a small beach is a subset of another beach.  Also, a beach may have a name, or it may have an address where it resides, a state, a country and even a continent. So every beach can hold all these information about itself. But somethings that classes have that instances can't have are the information about themselves. A class Beach can hold these attributes about every subset that are its beaches.  Classes can create new instances or new beaches, because you can have one long beach with different names.  Long beach, Santa Monica, or Hollywood, etc.  But an instance can never create a class because 
